---
layout: post
title: "The Google Internship"
author: "João Maria Janeiro"
categories: internships
tags: [internships]
image: google.png
---


If you're here you are probably applying to, or considering a Google internship or you might just be curious.

Let me tell you about my experience!

## Applying
So the first step to apply for a Google internship is going to careers.google.com. After you go to the website, if you are a student looking for an internship you should go here: [students](https://careers.google.com/jobs/results/?category=DATA_CENTER_OPERATIONS&category=DEVELOPER_RELATIONS&category=HARDWARE_ENGINEERING&category=INFORMATION_TECHNOLOGY&category=MANUFACTURING_SUPPLY_CHAIN&category=NETWORK_ENGINEERING&category=PRODUCT_MANAGEMENT&category=PROGRAM_MANAGEMENT&category=SOFTWARE_ENGINEERING&category=TECHNICAL_INFRASTRUCTURE_ENGINEERING&category=TECHNICAL_SOLUTIONS&category=TECHNICAL_WRITING&company=Google&company=Google%20Fiber&company=YouTube&employment_type=INTERN&q=). Now you see a lot of different options, you should read what each option is as some are quite different but the most common, and the one I did, is Software Engineering Intern. Now depending on your academic level you should either apply for a BSc or MSc position, I applied for a BSc as I was a sophomore when I applied.

## You now know what you want to apply to, how to make a good application?

For this you'll need to provide your full name, your address, email, phone number, your education, a cover letter, a transcript and your resume.

It's important to focus on a really strong resume, for this one I saw a lot of videos and read a bunch of stuff on how to write a good CV, I can provide some tips I learned but I do suggest you also do some research on your own, here are some tips:
* For each experience you mention focus on what YOU learned and what you did, not what the whole team or what was the purpose of the project, if possible it's also good to show your impact on the project, how did your contributions affect the project and if possible, give numbers
* You should keep your CV at a single page, even if you have a lot of projects, experiences and etc.... really do try to keep it under one page
* Order your CV in a priority descending way, so educations usually comes first and then if experience is more important than you projects or the other way around, choose the order accordingly.
* Inside a section, like experiences, they should be in a descending order of when they occured
* You should use bullet points when writing the experiences

A good resource is also looking at the book [cracking the coding interview](https://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/0984782850/ref=sr_1_1?crid=18DKWLHLIG752&keywords=cracking+the+coding+interview&qid=1572021260&sprefix=craking+the+co%2Caps%2C182&sr=8-1)

Now that you have a resume you should write a good cover letter, again I'd suggest you to see some tips online as this is also an important factor and a good place to elaborate more on some of the stuff you mentioned on your resume, they should both work together.

## You got an email saying you are moving to the next steps now what?
After this you'll have to fill some forms regarding grades, education, you preferences, what you know what you don't some things about you, this is all stuff you don't need to prepare for, you just need to answer it.

## The coding interviews
This is the big focus of the recruiting part!

How do you prepare for this mythical interviews?

For this, I started with the book I mentioned, cracking the coding interview, I read all the theoretical part before tackling the questions as I had not learned algorithms and data structures in class yet.

 After I read them I look most of the algorithms and data structures online in the book author's channel, [hacker rank](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCOf7UPMHBjAavgD0Qw5q5ww) and [geeks for geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/).

After I had a somewhat solid base I went straight for the hard problems section and I did most of the questions there, I was not able to to all of them and I learned a lot in the solutions provided.

Now that I knew a bunch of new stuff in order to keep practicing I went to [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/) and here I really did a lot of problems, mainly hard. 

This is all I did to prepare, I did a lot of problems on leetcode and they are very similar to what you'll find in the interviews so it really is a good way to practice, read the solutions if available or the discussions on the problems and you'll learn a lot.

## You passed the coding interviews, what comes next?
After you nail the coding interviews, you'll go into a phase called host matching. In this phase what happens is that all candidates are thrown into a pool. Google engineers that are looking for an intern have access to this tool and will look for a candidate for their position. They will read a preference form that you'll have to fill and they'll see if you're good for their position. If they think you'd be a good fit they ask for an interview with you.

### You got an interview, how to stand out?
This is a though one, you should above all, show your excitement about this opportunity! You should, before the interview, look the team and project (if possible) online and prepare some questions and curiosities you might have as this will be very important! These are really the important points to focus on! The rest will just be a chat and the host will probably have some questions for you, just answer them openly!

## How was the internship and the experience? 
I was selected for New York and I worked on the Google Ads team, between 8 July - 27 September with Angular dart and Java doing full stack web dev. The project itself, as most projects at Google, was really cool! At first it didn't seem that challenging but I quickly discovered that was wrong.

The New York office is amazing, everyone is so nice, always open to talk to you and share their thoughts and what they're working on, I really tried to meet a lot of people and know more about what they do so I could know the projects available at Google, it was super cool!!

They have a lot of initiatives for us to meet with other Googlers and I tried most of them and everyone was always super cool!

The internship itself was a real blast! I was able to learn a lot about new technologies there and really think differently about most problems and think about a lot of different stuff I didn't before.
I was able to finish the project quickly so I was actually assigned a second project that was also really cool but that I did not manage to finish.

The other interns were all super nice and we all traveled to some other states and to Canada, it was a really nice experience that I'd totally recommend to everyone who likes coding!